Hubo
====

Humanoid robot from KAIST

This is a set of tools and setup for Hubo-drake integration.

The current setup is that a desktop computer is interacting with the PC/104 computer onboard of Hubo.

The PC/104 uses ach-lcm-util to broadcast lcm channels on its state and control.  And the desktop computer uses matlab-model to interact with the broadcasted lcm channels.  Though there are a few tools in ach-lcm-util that is useful to use on the desktop as well.


========= Features ========

URDF......................OK

runPassive................OK

Live Visualier............OK

HuboBiped.................OK

TestIKTraj................OK

runHuboWalkingPlanning....OK

OpenLoopPlayback..........OK/UnScripted


================== URDF

There are three different URDF.
1. hubo.urdf  Basic urdf with hubo.  The body parts are linked from the robot's torso and build outwards.  This is the base version for all Hubo's URDF.
2. hubo-shifted.urdf  Because of the ground collision detection in drake.  The model shouldn't begin within the ground.  This URDF is shifted manually.
3. hubo-wBaseLink.urdf  To allow the model to be easily manipulated and moved during simulation setup or any other conditions.  The baselink represents where the robot is standing, but this assumption isn't absolute nor enforced.

=================== runPassive

Here the robot will be simulated by drake.  The result is that the robot collapsed to the ground, because none of the motor is powered.  A few things to note during this test.
1. The robot can collapse onto itself.  The collision meshs should not be on at this point, thus it is okay for Hubo's body part to collide with each other.
2. The ground is the only mesh that the simulated Hubo body will react with.  Make sure that Hubo doesn't penatrate the ground.


================== Live Visualizer

To run the live visualizer, you'll have to active send-message-ach-matlab and hubo-ach on Hubo.  By doing so, you'll turn Hubo into an LCM node.  Then Matlab can be turned on and interact with Hubo.  If you run HuboPlant.track() on matlab, the Live Visualizer will start up.

================== HuboBiped

This version of the plant is a Biped Class.  Allowing some of the Drake's walking footstep planner to work.  Also this Biped class incoorperates an Atlas like urdf for Hubo.  This new minimal contact urdf contains key collision groups in the form of points allowing Drake to simplify the simulation process.

================== TestIKTraj

This is a reaching simulation for Hubo.  By running TestIKTraj, the script will test various constrains as Hubo attempt to reach forward; constrains like hip pose and ankle limits are tested.

================== runHuboWalkingPlanning

This is an example script of the HuboBipe using the Walking planning in Drake.  It provides a good example of the Bipe class, and with Altas plant allows you to understand which variables should be adjusted if you plan to use the walking planner for your own robot.

================== OpenloopPlayBack

Currently, the LCMWrapper on Hubo has been configured to allow you to playback state trajectory generated by the walking planning onto Hubo's lower half of the body.  Unfortunately, this needs to be manually executed in matlab, for it is not yet scripted to be automated.  To do so, you will have to active the LCM wrapper and hubo-ach on Hubo.  Then run runLCM on a cascade System of a Trajectory and HuboReductionTransform.  This will allow Hubo to physically playback the trajectory in an open loop fashion.
